# Dorm Room Design Project - Criterion A
## Strand 1 - Filippo Fonseca
_What makes a perfect design? How can we optimize the spaces, areas, and environments we as individuals use to work, relax, and reside in for maximum efficiency and productive output in times of work and a clear contract with relaxation and rest in others, **all in the same space?**_. These are both questions that have strained the minds of new-bound college students, interior designers, and productivity enthusiasts for as long as college dormitories (dorms) have existed. It doesn't always have to be this way, however, as when elements that are essential to a dorm room (and any students' college career, for that matter), like time management, proper positioning, spatial awareness, mental wellbeing, and others, amazing results are achievable. The key to achieving them, however, is not as simple. As mentioned earlier, not only must one always entertain a living and working environment that is "well designed" and "aesthetically pleasing", but instead also account for perhaps even more important and necessary factors to complement the college experience of a certain individual, such as work-life balance, productive output, efficiency, and rest. By taking these into account with purposeful and intentional meaning when designing one's college dorm room, not only do we allow for success in the four previously mentioned areas (balance, productive output, efficiency, and rest), but we also empower ourselves to create a space that is both aesthetically pleasing and makes us happy (a key to mental health & wellbeing, an integral element in college and in life) at the same time.

Perhaps the most important aspect of any project or venture is its *budget* and *total expected input/output (I/O)*. In fact, it might even be the single most defining factor for why it is absolutely crucial that any design activity (in particular one regarding interior design, aesthetics, and one's living space, as in the case of a college dorm room) to have a well-defined, clear-cut, and purposeful budget & initial monetary investment. In addition to the budget, a strong support system and foundational structure/base are needed to go along with it. In the case of this project, we can already start to see both are present in the picture, as the initial $2000 budget is provided by one's parents (who subsequently act as the default support system and foundational base to sustain the project). Now, you might be thinking about the relatively small scale occurrence (when looking at larger, more significant events) designing a college dorm room really is. The counterargument (and a decently valid one) to that argument would be the following: The only way to ensure success in anything is to not take any one thing too lightly. As the old saying goes, "...how you do one thing is how you do everything." If smaller projects like these are used as a teachable moment for both ourselves, our peers, and the support system around us, we will be able to properly mold and adapt to the ever-changing complexities, high-level scenarios, and struggles of larger, more sophisticated ventures throw our way. As world-renowned businessman & founder of Virgin Galactic Richard Branson put it, *"You don't learn to walk by following rules. You learn by doing, and by falling over."**

- TALK ABOUT THE SPACE IN THE FINAL PARAGRAPH
- TRANSFER TO GOOGLE DOCS WHEN DONE (DOUBLE-SPACED) + INCLUDE MLA CITATIONS
